# TASK INTERN CAREER 
This repository contains the tasks that I completed while working as a SQL Intern at Intern Career

    Internship Category – SQL 
    Internship Duration - 1 Month (January 2024)
    Internship Type – Virtual Internship
 

## Task 1: SQL Data Analysis: Spotify-Data 1921-2020
Description: Perform data analysis using SQL queries focusing on extracting meaningful insights and patterns.
*  Dataset link : [here](https://github.com/Mayreeobi/Task-Intern-Career/blob/main/%F0%9F%8E%A7%F0%9F%93%BB%20Spotify%20data%20-20240113T150317Z-001.zip)
*  Click here for the SQL script [here](https://github.com/Mayreeobi/Task-Intern-Career/blob/main/Spotify.sql)

## Introduction:
The dataset contains more than 169,909 songs and 19 columns from the year 1921 to year 2020. 
Below are the columns' descriptions.
- id: Id of track generated by Spotify.
- artists: List of artists mentioned.
- name: Name of the song.
- year: Ranges from 1921 to 2020
- duration_ms: Integer typically ranging from 200k to 300k.
- mode: 0 = Minor, 1 = Major
- explicit: 0 = No explicit content, 1 = Explicit content
- song_key: All keys on octave encoded as values ranging from 0 to 11, starting on C as 0, C# as 1 and so on…
- popularity: The popularity of a track is a value between 0 and 100, with 100 being the most popular.
- acousticness: A confidence measure from 0.0 to 1.0 of whether the track is acoustic. 1.0 represents high confidence the track is acoustic.
- danceability: Describes how suitable a track is for dancing based on a combination of musical elements including tempo, rhythm stability, beat strength, and overall regularity. A value of 0.0 is least danceable and 1.0 is most danceable.
- energy: Energy is a measure from 0.0 to 1.0 and represents a perceptual measure of intensity and activity. Typically, energetic tracks feel fast, loud, and noisy.
- instrumentalness: Predicts whether a track contains no vocals. “Ooh” and “aah” sounds are treated as instrumental in this context. Rap or spoken word tracks are clearly “vocal.” The closer the instrumentalness value is to 1.0, the greater likelihood the track contains no vocal content. Values above 0.5 are intended to represent instrumental tracks, but confidence is higher as the value approaches 1.0.
- valence: A measure from 0.0 to 1.0 describing the musical positiveness conveyed by a track. Tracks with high valence sound more positive (e.g. happy, cheerful, euphoric), while tracks with low valence sound more negative (e.g. sad, depressed, angry).
- tempo: The overall estimated tempo of a track in beats per minute (BPM). In musical terminology, tempo is the speed or pace of a given piece and derives directly from the average beat duration.
- liveness: Detects the presence of an audience in the recording. Higher liveness values represent an increased probability that the track was performed live. A value above 0.8 provides strong likelihood that the track is live.
-loudness: Float typically ranging from -60 to 0 
- speechiness: detects the presence of spoken words in a track. The more exclusively speech-like the recording (e.g. talk show, audio book, poetry), the closer to 1.0 the attribute value. Values above 0.66 describe tracks that are probably made entirely of spoken words. Values between 0.33 and 0.66 describe tracks that may contain both music and speech, either in sections or layered, including such cases as rap music. Values below 0.33 most likely represent music and other non-speech-like tracks.

## Key Questions
-	What is the total number of songs?
-	What is the number of songs released by year?
-	10 most popular songs and artists?
-	What is the percentage of the songs released in 2020? 
-	Determine the “danceability” of each song? 
-	How many songs fall into each danceable group?
-	Which artist and song has the longest song duration?
-	What is the average song duration?
- Songs with duration longer than the average song duration?
- Most recently released songs.
- What is the distribution of each song key?
- Top 5 artists with the highest average acousticness
- What is the song with the highest average liveness?

## Insights:
- Total number of songs was 169,909 
- Decade-wise Song Releases: The 1960s, 70s, 80s, 90s and 2000s witnessed a substantial release of 20,000 songs each while the 2020s marked the lowest with a modest 1,750 releases.
- “Blinding Light” by The Weekend claimed the top spot as the most popular song with a perfect popularity rate of 100. 
- In the year 2020, songs released accounted for a mere 2.21% of the entire dataset.
- Danceability breakdown: Among the danceability categories, 69,565 songs fell into the danceable group. Followed closely, the least danceable category comprised 50,526 songs. The most danceable group featured 32,557 songs whereas the ‘Not danceable’ group had 17,261 songs. 
- The average duration of songs stands at is 3.36 minutes.
- The title for the longest song duration goes to “Psychological Ultimate Seashore” by Environments at 59 minutes 17 seconds. 
- “Up on Cripple Creek – Concert Version “by The Band claims the title for the song with the  highest average liveness.
